# Azure AI Foundry end-to-end baseline reference implementation

**Introduction:**

This reference implementation demonstrates how to author and run various
AI-driven applications, including chat applications, using Azure AI
Foundry and OpenAI within a single region. It offers a secure and
private environment suitable for enterprises.

![Diagram of the authoring architecture using Azure AI
Foundry.](./media/image1.png)

**Objective:**

The implementation covers the following scenarios:

1.  Testing/Authoring using AI Foundry Chat Playground

2.  Authoring a flow - Authoring a flow using prompt flow in an Azure AI
    Foundry

3.  Deploying a flow to Azure AI Foundry - The deployment of an
    executable flow to an Azure AI Foundry online endpoint. The client
    UI that is hosted in Azure App Service accesses the deployed flow.

## Exercise 1: Complete the set up and Deploy the infrastructure

### Task 1: Register Resource providers and assign roles

1.  Login to the Azure portal at +++https://portal.azure.com+++ using
    the login credentials,

    - Username - +++@lab.CloudPortalCredential(User1).Username+++

    - Password - +++@lab.CloudPortalCredential(User1).Password+++

2.  Select **Subscriptions** and select your assigned subscription.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
    incorrect.](./media/image2.png)

    ![A screenshot of a chat AI-generated content may be
    incorrect.](./media/image3.png)

3.  From the left navigation pane, select **Resource providers** under
    **Settings**. Search for and select +++**AlertsManagement**+++ and
    **Register** the same.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
    incorrect.](./media/image4.png)

    ![A close-up of a white background AI-generated content may be
    incorrect.](./media/image5.png)

4.  Similarly, register the Resource providers +++Microsoft.StreamAnalytics+++, +++Microsoft.PolicyInsights+++ and
    +++Microsoft.Cdn+++.

5.  Go to the Home page of the Azure portal, select Resource Groups and
    select your assigned **Resource Group**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image6.png)

6.  Select **Access control(IAM)** from the left pane, select the **drop
    down** next to **Add** and click on **Add role assignment** to add a
    new role to your account.

    ![A screenshot of a computer screen AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image7.png)

7.  Select **Privileged administrator roles**, search for
    +++**owner**+++, select **LOD owner** and click on **Next**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer screen AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image8.png)

8.  Click on **+ Select members**. In the **Select members** dialog that
    opens, search for +++@lab.CloudPortalCredential(User1).Username+++
    and select. Click on **Select**. Click on **Next** to move to the
    next screen.

    ![A screenshot of a group of members AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image9.png)

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image10.png)

9.  In the Add role assignment â€“ Conditions tab, select the **Allow user
    to assign all roles (highly privileged)** option and click on
    **Next**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer screen AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image11.png)

10. In the next screen, select **Assignment type** as **Active** and
    **Assignment duration** as **Permanent** and click on **Next**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image12.png)

11. Select **Review + assign** to get the role assigned and wait for a
    success message.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image13.png)

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image14.png)

### Task 2: Create CloudShell storage and clone the repo

1.  From the Azure portal Home page, click on the **Cloud Shell** icon
    to open the Cloud Shell and select **Bash** in the Welcome to Azure
    Cloud Shell dialog.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image15.png)

2.  Select **Mount storage account** option and select your assigned
    subscription from the drop-down menu.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image16.png)

3.  Select **We will create a storage account for you** option and click
    on **Next**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer account AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image17.png)

    ![A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image18.png)

4.  Once the creation is done and the Cloud Shell pane opens. Click on
    **Editor** and select **Confirm** in the **Switch to Cloud Shell**
    confirmation dialog. We will need the Editor mode to edit the files
    for the deployment.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image19.png)

    ![A screen shot of a computer error AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image20.png)

5.  Execute the following commands to clone the repository from GitHub
    to your CloudShell storage and then navigate to the cloned folder.

    +++git clone https://github.com/technofocus-pte/aistudio-end-to-end-baseline-architecture.git+++

    +++cd aistudio-end-to-end-baseline-architecture/+++

    ![A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image21.png)

6.  Execute the below commands and follow the prompts to login to Azure
    from CLI and set the subscription to your subscription

    +++az login+++

    +++az account set --subscription @lab.CloudSubscription.Id+++

    ![A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be
    incorrect.](./media/image22.png)

    ![](./media/image23.png)

### Task 3: Obtain the App Gateway certificate

1.  Follow the steps below to obtain the **App Gateway certificate**.

2.  Execute the below command to set a variable for the domain used in
    the rest of this deployment.

    +++export DOMAIN_NAME_APPSERV_BASELINE="contoso.com"+++

3.  Execute the below command to generate a client-facing, self-signed
    TLS certificate.

    ```
    openssl req -x509 -nodes -days 365 -newkey rsa:2048 -out appgw.crt -keyout appgw.key -subj "/CN=${DOMAIN_NAME_APPSERV_BASELINE}/O=Contoso" -addext "subjectAltName = DNS:${DOMAIN_NAME_APPSERV_BASELINE}" -addext "keyUsage = digitalSignature" -addext "extendedKeyUsage = serverAuth"
    openssl pkcs12 -export -out appgw.pfx -in appgw.crt -inkey appgw.key -passout pass:

    ```

    ![A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image24.png)

4.  The below command is to Base64 encode the client-facing certificate.
    Execute it.

    ```
    export APP_GATEWAY_LISTENER_CERTIFICATE_APPSERV_BASELINE=$(cat appgw.pfx | base64 | tr -d '\n')
    echo $APP_GATEWAY_LISTENER_CERTIFICATE_APPSERV_BASELINE

    ```

5.  Save the output of the above command to a notepad as
    **appGatewayListenerCertificate**.

    ![](./media/image25.png)

6.  Execute the below command to get your **object id** and save the
    output to a notepad.

    +++echo $(az ad signed-in-user show --query id -o tsv)+++

    ![](./media/image26.png)

7.  Click on **Open editor** icon from the Cloud Shell.

    ![](./media/image27.png)

8.  Navigate to the **parameters.json**
    (aistudio-end-to-end-baseline-architecture -\> infra-as-code -\>
    bicep -\> parameters.json)

    ![](./media/image28.png)

9.  Add the **appGatewayListenerCertificate** value saved earlier as the
    value to appGatewayListenerCertificate field. Add the **object id**
    value as value to the userObjectId field.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image29.png)

10. Right click, select **Save** and then **Quit** the editor.

### Task 4: Deploy the infrastructure

1.  Execute the following command to deploy the infrastructure.

    ```
    RESOURCE_GROUP=@lab.CloudResourceGroup(ResourceGroup1).Name
    BASE_NAME=@lab.LabInstance.Id

    az deployment group create -f ./infra-as-code/bicep/main.bicep \
    -g $RESOURCE_GROUP \
    -p @./infra-as-code/bicep/parameters.json \
    -p baseName=$BASE_NAME

    ```

    The deployment takes around 45 minutes to complete

    ![A screenshot of a computer screen AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image30.png)

2.  Once the deployment succeeds, the details get populated in the Cloud
    Shell. Review the details.

    ![A computer screen shot of white text AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image31.png)

    ![A screen shot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image32.png)

3.  From your Resource group, select **Deployments** from the left pane
    and browse through the details.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
    incorrect.](./media/image33.png)

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
    incorrect.](./media/image34.png)

4.  Click on **Overview** from the left pane and browse through the
    resources that are created from the deployment.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
    incorrect.](./media/image35.png)

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
    incorrect.](./media/image36.png)

5.  After deployment from the AI Search resource, the **Private Shared
    links** needs to be **approved** **manually**.

6.  Type +++search+++ in the **Search** box under the **Resources** and
    select the resource
    ai-search[@lab.LabInstance.Id](mailto:BASE_NAME=@lab.LabInstance.Id)

    ![](./media/image37.png)

7.  Select **Networking** under **Settings** from the left navigation
    pane and select the **Shared private access** pane. Notice that the
    **Connection state** is in **Pending** state for all the Private
    Shared links.

    ![](./media/image38.png)

8.  Follow the steps below to manually approve them.

9.  From the resource list of the Resource group, search for and select
    the storage account,
    +++st@lab.LabInstance.Id+++

    ![](./media/image39.png)

10. Select the **Private endpoint connections** tab, select the one
    whose Connection state is in **Pending** state and click on
    **Approve** to approve it.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image40.png)

11. Select **Yes** in the Approve connection dialog box.

    ![A close-up of a number AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image41.png)

12. Similarly **Approve** the pending approvals for the storage account
    +++stml@lab.LabInstance.Id+++,
    +++oai-@lab.LabInstance.Id+++,
    +++ai@lab.LabInstance.Id+++

13. The ai-search@lab.LabInstance.Id resource -> Networking -> Shared private access, should look like
    the one in the screen shot below.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image42.png)

## Exercise 2: Connect to Azure AI Foundry, work with Prompt flow and publish the chat app

### Task 1: Connect to Azure AI Foundry

In this case, the author connects to the virtual network through Azure
Bastion and a virtual machine jumpbox. Connectivity to the virtual
network is more commonly done in enterprises through ExpressRoute or
virtual network peering.

The diagram below, illustrates how Azure AI Foundry is configured for
Managed virtual network isolation. With this configuration, a managed
virtual network is created, along with managed private endpoints
enabling connectivity to private resources such as the workplace Azure
Storage and Azure Container Registry. You can also create user-defined
connections like private endpoints to connect to resources like Azure
OpenAI Service and Azure AI Search (previously named Cognitive Search).

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image43.png)

1.  From the Resourcegroup, search for +++virtual machine+++ and select
    the resource vm-jmp-@lab.LabInstance.Id.

    ![](./media/image44.png)

2.  Select the drop down next to **Connect** and select **Connect via
    Bastion.**

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image45.png)

3.  Provide the below details and click on Connect to connect to the VM.

    - Username - +++vmadmin+++

    - Password - +++jmPSecureST98+++

    ![](./media/image46.png)

4.  Select **Allow** in the pop up.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image47.png)

5.  Once logged in, scroll down and click on **Accept** in the pop up.

    ![](./media/image48.png)

6.  Open the Edge browser from the desktop and select **Start without
    your data**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image49.png)

7.  Select **Confirm and continue** and then **Confirm and start
    browsing** in the next screen.

    ![A screenshot of a computer error AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image50.png)

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image51.png)

8.  From the VMâ€™s browser, login to the Azure portal at
    +++https://portal.azure.com+++ using,

    - Username - +++@lab.CloudPortalCredential(User1).Username+++

    - Password - <+++@lab.CloudPortalCredential(User1).Password>+++

9.  Search for +++hub+++ and select the **aihub-lab.LabInstance.Id**
    resource.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image52.png)

10. Select Launch **Azure AI Foundry**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image53.png)

11. Select **Connected resources** from the left pane. We need to create
    a new AI Search Connection. Select **+ New connection**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image54.png)

12. Select **Azure AI Search**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image55.png)

13. In the **Connect an Azure AI Search resource** pane, click on **Add
    connection**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image56.png)

14. Once connected, **Close** the Connect an Azure AI Search resource
    dialog. (Reduce the **Zoom** **size** of the browser if the Close
    button is not visible).

    ![A screenshot of a search engine AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image57.png)

15. In the **Manage connected resources in this hub** screen, confirm
    that the **aisearch** resource is now available in the connected
    resources list.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image58.png)

16. Select **Create project** to create a new project in the **Azure AI
    Foundry**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image59.png)

17. Give the project name as +++project-@lab.LabInstance.Id+++ and
    select **Create project**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image60.png)

18. Once the project is created, click on **Close** in the **Explore and
    experiment** dialog.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image61.png)

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image62.png)

19. Select **Playgrounds** from the left navigation pane and select the
    **Try the Chat playground** option.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
    incorrect.](./media/image63.png)

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
    incorrect.](./media/image64.png)

    ![A screenshot of a chat AI-generated content may be
    incorrect.](./media/image65.png)

20. Ask questions and chat in the playground here. Ask a question like
    +++What is Azure OpenAI?+++ and look for the response from the
    model.

    ![](./media/image66.png)

### Task 2: Create, test, and deploy a Prompt flow 

1.  From the left navigation pane, select **Prompt flow** and select **+
    Create**.

    ![](./media/image67.png)

2.  **Clone** the **Chat with Wikipedia** flow. **Name** the flow as
    +++chat_wiki+++ and click on **Clone.**

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image68.png)

    >[!Note] **Note:** If you face a **CloudDependencyPermission** error, cancel the
    cloning and redo it with a different name **after** waiting for **few
    minutes**.

    ![](./media/image69.png)

3.  Update the values in **extract_query_from_question** as below.

    - Connection â€“ Select
    **aihub-@lab.LabInstance.Id-connection-Aiservices_aoai**

    - deployment_name â€“ Select **gpt4**

    - max_tokens - +++256+++

    ![A screenshot of a chat AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image70.png)

4.  Update the values in **augmented_chat** as below.

    - Connection â€“ Select
    **aihub-@lab.LabInstance.Id-connection-Aiservices_aoai**

    - deployment_name - **gpt4**

    - max_tokens â€“ +++256+++

    ![A screenshot of a chat AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image71.png)

5.  Click on the **Save** icon to save the changes.

    ![A screenshot of a chat AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image72.png)

6.  Select **Start compute session**.

    ![A screenshot of a chat AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image73.png)

7.  Wait for the runtime to be created. It will take around 10 minutes
    to complete.

    ![A screenshot of a chat AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image74.png)

8.  Explore the **Chat** option.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image75.png)

    ![](./media/image76.png)

### Task 3: Deploy to Azure AI Foundry managed online endpoint

1.  Click on **Deploy** from the UI.

    ![](./media/image77.png)

2.  In the Deploy chat_wiki screen, provide the below details and click
    on **Review + Create**.

    - Endpoint name - +++ept-@lab.LabInstance.Id+++

    - Deployment name - +++ept-@lab.LabInstance.Id-1+++

    - Virtual machine â€“ Select **Standard_DS3_v2**

    ![](./media/image78.png)

3.  Review the settings and click on **Create**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
    incorrect.](./media/image79.png)

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
    incorrect.](./media/image80.png)

4.  Ensure that the **deployment** gets **succeeded**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image81.png)

### Task 4: Publish the Chat front-end web app

1.  We need to upload the file to the storage account. The deployed
    storage account does not allow public access, so you will need to
    temporarily allow access from your IP address.

2.  You must authorize your user to upload a blob to the storage
    account.

3.  Execute the below command to find the IPAddress of the
    **CloudShell**.

    +++curl -s https://ipinfo.io/ip+++

    ![A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image82.png)

4.  From the Storage account, <st@lab.LabInstanceId>, select Networking
    under **Security + networking**. **Under Firewalls and virtual
    networks**, select the option **Enabled from selected virtual
    networks and IP addresses**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image83.png)

5.  Scroll down and under the **Firewall** section, select **Add your
    Client IP address** and then add the **Cloud Shellâ€™s IP address**
    under the **Address range**.

    ![](./media/image84.png)

6.  Scroll up and **Save** the changes.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image85.png)

7.  Execute the below command to assign **Storage Blob Contributor**
    role to the user in order to give the logged-in user permission to
    upload a blob.

    ```
    STORAGE_ACCOUNT_PREFIX=st
    BASE_NAME=@lab.LabInstanceId
    RESOURCE_GROUP=@lab.CloudResourceGroup(ResourceGroup1).Name
    NAME_OF_STORAGE_ACCOUNT="$STORAGE_ACCOUNT_PREFIX$BASE_NAME"

    # Get your signed-in user's object ID
    USER_ID=$(az ad signed-in-user show --query id -o tsv)

    # Get the storage account's full resource ID
    STORAGE_ACCOUNT_ID=$(az storage account show \
    --name $STORAGE_ACCOUNT_PREFIX$BASE_NAME \
    --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
    --query id -o tsv)

    # Assign the required role
    az role assignment create \
    --assignee $USER_ID \
    --role "Storage Blob Data Contributor" \
    --scope $STORAGE_ACCOUNT_ID
    ```

    ![](./media/image86.png)

8.  Execute the below command to upload the zip file
    ./website/chatui.zip to the existing deploy container and tell the
    web app to restart.

    ```
    WEB_APP_PREFIX=app-
    NAME_OF_WEB_APP="$WEB_APP_PREFIX$BASE_NAME"
    LOGGED_IN_USER_ID=$(az ad signed-in-user show --query id -o tsv)
    RESOURCE_GROUP_ID=$(az group show --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP --query id -o tsv)

    az storage blob upload -f ./website/chatui.zip \
    --account-name $NAME_OF_STORAGE_ACCOUNT \
    --auth-mode login \
    -c deploy -n chatui.zip

    az webapp restart --name $NAME_OF_WEB_APP --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP

    ```

    ![A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image87.png)

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image88.png)

### Task 5: Validate the web app

1.  This section will help you to ensure that the workload is exposed
    correctly and responding to HTTP requests.

2.  Get the public IP address of the Application Gateway be executing
    the command below. Save the output to a notepad.

    ```
    APPGW_PUBLIC_IP=$(az network public-ip show --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP --name "pip-$BASE_NAME" --query [ipAddress] --output tsv)
    echo APPGW_PUBLIC_IP: $APPGW_PUBLIC_IP
    ```

3.  Create an A record for DNS. From your VM, navigate to
    **C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc\hosts** and add the following
    entry to the end of it, replacing < APPGW_PUBLIC_IP > with the
    output received in the last step.

    +++< APPGW_PUBLIC_IP > www.contoso.com+++

4.  Browse to the site, +++https://www.contoso.com+++

5.  It may take up to a few minutes for the App Service to start
    properly. A TLS warning will be present due to using a self-signed
    certificate. You can ignore it or import the self-signed cert
    (appgw.pfx) to your user's trusted root store.

## Exercise 3:  WAF AI Workload assessment

1.	From a browser, navigate to +++https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/assessments/ea306cce-c7fa-4a2b-89a6-bfefba6a9cf4/+++ and select **Start Assessment**.

    ![](./media/image89.png)
  	
2.	Select **Sign in** to start.

     ![](./media/image90.png)
  	
3.	Signing in using personal id is encouraged so that the data can be retained.

4.	There are **different categories** of questions.

5.	Select an option for each of the questions based on your workload requirements like in the screenshots below.

    ![](./media/image91.png)

    ![](./media/image92.png)

    ![](./media/image93.png)
 
    ![](./media/image94.png)
  	
    ![](./media/image95.png)

 
    ![](./media/image96.png)
 

7. There are a total of 40 questions. Select an answer for each one of them based on your scenario.
   
8. Once all the questions are answered, you will receive the **results** based on your requirements, categorized appropriately with recommendations for each.  

    ![](./media/image97.png)
  	
9.	Scroll down to know more details on the same.


**Summary:**

In this lab, we have deployed the AI Foundry end to end baseline
reference architecture, worked with the Azure AI Foundry chat, Prompt
flow and deployed the flow as an Azure AI Foundry managed online
endpoint and published it to chat front-end web app.
